Q.1. Who developed Python Programming Language?
Ans - Python, which is strongly as well as dynamic typed language was created by Guido van Rossum and first released in the year 1991.

Q.2. Which type of programming does Python support?
Ans - Python is an interpreted programming language which supports object-oriented, structured, and functional programming.

Q.3. Is Python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers?
Ans - Yes, Python is a case-sensitive language, i.e., it treats uppercase and lowercase characters differently within the identifiers.

Q.4. What is correct extension of the Python file?
Ans - The exyension of Python file is '.ipynb' i.e. interactive python notebook.

Q.5. Is Python code compiled or interpreted?
Ans - Python is an interpreted language as the source code of a Python program is converted into bytecode that is then executed by the Python virtual machine and not a compiled one as Python code is not required to be built and linked like code for other languages like C and C++.

Q.6. Name a few blocks of code used to define in Python Language?
Ans - A block is a piece of Python program text that is executed as a unit. 
      The following are blocks: a module, a function body, and a class definition.

Q.7. State a character used to give single line comments in Python?
Ans - Character '#' (Hashtag or Hash) used to give single line comments tells the interpreter to ignore the rest of the line of code.

Q.8. Mention functions which can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on?
Ans - Two ways to find the version of python:
        1. from platform import python_version
           print(python_version())
           
        2. import sys
           print(sys.version)
           
Q.9. Python supports the creation of anonymous functions at runtime using a construct called "lambda".
                                                                                              ------
                                                                                              
Q.10. What does pip stands for Python?
Ans -  pip is the standard package manager for Python which allows us to install and manage additional packages that are not part of the Python standard          library.

Q.11. Mention the few built-in functions in Python?
Ans - The functions whose functionality is pre-defined in Python are known as Built-in Functions.
       Here are few of them : print( ),type( ),input( ),abs( ),pow( ),dir( ),sorted( ),max( ),round( ),divmod( ),id( ),ord( ),len( ),sum( ),help( )
       
Q.12. What is the maximum possible length of identifier in Python?
Ans - Identifier can have a maximum length of 79 characters in Python.

Q.13. What are the benifits of using Python?
Ans -  Following are te benifits of using Python:
       1. Python is an interpreted, object-oriented, high-level programming language with dynamic semantics. It has the certain features like high-level             built in data structures, dynamic typing and dynamic binding which makes it very attractive for Rapid Application Development, as well as for             use as a scripting or glue language to connect existing components together.
       2. Python's simple, easy to learn syntax emphasizes on code readability with the use of whitespaces and therefore reduces the cost of program
          maintenance.
       3. Python supports modules and packages, which encourages program modularity and code reuse.
       4. The Python interpreter and the extensive standard library are available in source or binary form without charge for all major platforms, and can
          be freely distributed.
       5. Python is a great general-purpose programming language on its own, but with the help of a few popular libraries (numpy, scipy, matplotlib) it
          becomes a powerful environment for scientific computing.
          
Q.14. How is memory managed in Python?
Ans - Memory in Python is managed by Python private heap space. All Python objects and data structures are located in a private heap. This private heap is       taken care of by Python Interpreter itself, and a programmer doesn't have access to this private heap.

Q.15. How to install Python on windows and set path variables?
Ans - Open a browser to the Python website and download the Windows installer, after that Double click on the downloaded file and install Python for all
      users, and ensure that Python is added to your path.
         The complete path of python.exe can be added by:
      1. Right-clicking This PC and going to Properties.
      2. Clicking on the Advanced system settings in the menu on the left.
      3. Clicking on the Environment Variables button on the bottom right.
      4. In the System variables section, selecting the Path variable and clicking on Edit. The next screen will show all the directories that are
         currently a part of the PATH variable.
      5. Clicking on New and entering Python’s install directory.
      
Q.16. Is indentation required in Python?
Ans - Yes, indentation in Python is very important because it is used to indicate a block of code.